# PART 27: APPLICABILITY OF COURT FORMS

> 245\. Applications and documents with no specific court forms
>
> 246\. General matters to note
>
> 247\. Table of Forms
>
> > * Forms in Appendix A (Forms for use in Family Justice (General) Rules 2024)
> > * Forms in Appendix B (Common forms for use in Family Justice (General) Rules 2024 and Family Justice (Probate and Other Matters) Rules 2024)
> > * Forms in Appendix C (Forms for use in Family Justice (Probate and Other Matters) Rules 2024)
> > * Forms in Appendix D (Forms for use in Family Justice (Protection from Harassment) Rules 2024)
> > * Appendix E (Sample Bills of Costs)
> > * Forms in Appendix F (Forms for use in Family Justice (Criminal Proceedings in Youth Courts) Rules 2024)

## 245. Applications and documents with no specific court forms

(1) Where a party is to file an application or document and there are no court forms specified for such application or document in the tables (“Table of Forms”) in paragraph 247(3), he or she shall file the application or document using the relevant form in the right column of the table below corresponding to the type of application / document:

<table><thead><tr><th width="284">Type of Application / Document</th><th>Form</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Originating Application</td><td>Form 53A (Generic Originating Application)</td></tr><tr><td>Summons</td><td>Form 67A (Generic summons)</td></tr><tr><td>Affidavit</td><td>Form 54 (Generic affidavit)</td></tr><tr><td>Order of Court</td><td>Form 114 (Order of Court)</td></tr></tbody></table>

(2) The generic forms listed in sub-paragraph (1) are to be used only for proceedings under the Family Justice (General) Rules 2024 or the Family Justice (Protection from Harassment) Rules 2024. For proceedings under the Family Justice (Probate and Other Matters) Rules 2024, refer to the applicable Rules of Court 2021 forms with suitable modifications.

## 246. General matters to note

Where a court form is remotely composed on the applicable Electronic Filing Service, a party is to use the version of the form in the Electronic Filing Service.

## 247. Table of Forms

(1) The Table of Forms in sub-paragraph (3) sets out the applicable court forms to be used for specific applications or documents.

(2) The use of the court forms is mandatory unless otherwise stated in the “Remarks” column.

(3) The information in the column titled “When should the form be used?” is to give general guidance to the court user. For further details, please refer to the cover notes to individual forms (if any), the corresponding Family Justice (General) Rules 2024, Family Justice (Probate and Other Matters) Rules 2024, Family Justice (Protection from Harassment) Rules 2024 and these Practice Directions.

{% hint style="info" %}
<mark style="color:blue;">Click</mark> [<mark style="color:blue;">here</mark>](https://github.com/opendocsg/opendoc-family-justice-courts-practice-directions/raw/master/assets/Appendices%20FJC%20EPD%202024/Table%20of%20Forms%20ver.16%20Jan%202025.pdf) <mark style="color:blue;">to download the Table of Forms below in PDF format for optimal viewing.</mark>
{% endhint %}

**Forms in Appendix A (Forms for use in Family Justice (General) Rules 2024)**

<table data-full-width="true"><thead><tr><th width="93">Form No.</th><th width="219">Form Title</th><th width="235">Applicable Rule(s) / PD Paragraph(s)</th><th width="351">When should the form be used?</th><th>Remarks</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>1</td><td>Originating Application / Summons / Application for Extension of Time / Renewal of Originating Application</td><td><p>P.1, r.7 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.19, r.19 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.19, r.21 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.19, r.27 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.19, r.28 FJ(G)R</p></td><td><p>To extend time in FJ(G)R or Court directions.</p><p> </p><p>To extend validity of Originating Application.</p><p> </p><p>For use in:</p><p> </p><p>(a) Originating Applications;</p><p>(b) Summonses in Originating Applications;</p><p>(c) P.3, r.12 FJ(G)R Applications (within quasi-criminal proceedings);</p><p>(d) Appeals; or</p><p>(e) Applications in appeals.</p><p> </p><p> </p><p> </p></td><td><p>May be filed in both IELS and iFAMS.</p><p> </p><p> </p></td></tr><tr><td>2A</td><td>Originating Application for Divorce / Judicial Separation / Presumption of Death and Divorce</td><td><p>P.2, r.2 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.2, r.5 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.2, r.7 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.2, r.8 FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 11 PD</p><p>Para 12 PD</p><p> </p></td><td><p>To file as:</p><p> </p><p>(a) Originating application (Simplified);</p><p>(b) Cross-application (Simplified);</p><p>(c) Originating application; or</p><p>(d) Cross-application.</p><p> </p><p> </p><p> </p></td><td><p>Includes:</p><p> </p><p>(a) Party’s consent to simplified proceedings for divorce and judicial separation;</p><p> </p><p>(b) Summons without notice for approval under section 94A(4) of Women’s Charter 1961;</p><p> </p><p>(c) Request for hearing date for simplified proceedings.</p><p> </p></td></tr><tr><td>2B</td><td>Originating Application for Nullity</td><td><p>P.2, r.2 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.2, r.5 FJ(G)R</p></td><td><p>To file as:</p><p> </p><p>(a) Originating application; or</p><p>(b) Cross-application.</p><p> </p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>2C</td><td>Agreement that Marriage Has Irretrievably Broken Down</td><td>P.2, r.2(1) FJ(G)R</td><td>To be filed together with the Originating Application / Cross-application for Divorce / Judicial Separation when the fact relied on for ground of divorce is mutual agreement that the marriage has irretrievably broken down.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>3</td><td><p>Generated versions of Forms 2A and 2B</p><p> </p></td><td>-</td><td>-</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>4</td><td>Notice to Contest</td><td><p>P.2, r.4 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.7, r.4 FJ(G)R</p><p>Third Schedule, Part 1, Division 4, Item 17 FJ(G)R</p></td><td><p>To:</p><p> </p><p>(a) Object to the matrimonial application on the facts / grounds cited;</p><p>(b) Object to the applicant’s claim for ancillary relief;</p><p>(c) Make a claim for ancillary relief against the applicant;</p><p>(d) File a cross-application; or</p><p>(e) Challenge the court’s jurisdiction.</p><p> </p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>5</td><td>Reply to Originating Application for Dissolution of Marriage</td><td><p>P.2, r.5 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.7, r.4 FJ(G)R</p></td><td><p>To respond to:</p><p> </p><p>(a) Originating Application for Divorce / Judicial Separation / Nullity; or</p><p>(b) Cross-application for Divorce / Judicial Separation / Nullity.</p><p> </p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>6</td><td>Request for Trial or Hearing Date</td><td><p>P.2, r.7 FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 16(1)(a) PD</p></td><td>To be used for both contested and uncontested matrimonial proceedings, except simplified proceedings.</td><td>To be filed by the applicable party as set out in P.2, r.7 FJ(G)R.</td></tr><tr><td>7</td><td>Affidavit for Uncontested Dissolution Hearing</td><td>Para 17(1) PD</td><td><p>For use only in uncontested divorce, nullity, judicial separation, presumption of death and divorce, excluding simplified proceedings.</p><p> </p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>8</td><td>Draft Ancillary Reliefs Order</td><td><p>Para 17(3) PD</p><p>Para 21(1) PD</p><p>P.15, r.35 FJ(G)R</p></td><td><p>To set out the agreed ancillary relief terms in:</p><p> </p><p>(a) Matrimonial proceedings;</p><p>(b) Proceedings under section 121B of the Women’s Charter 1961; or</p><p>(c) Proceedings under section 17A(2)(c) of the Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1969.</p><p> </p><p>Refer to the Form for further details.</p><p> </p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>9</td><td><p>CPF Checklist for Consent Orders for Disposal or Transfer of Properties Funded with CPF Moneys</p><p> </p></td><td>-</td><td>When parties have come to an agreement on the disposition of property where CPF monies is used.</td><td>The signed checklist to be annexed to Draft Ancillary Reliefs Order</td></tr><tr><td>10</td><td>Affidavit of Split Care and Control</td><td>Para 21(2) PD</td><td><p>To be completed when the parties seek to record an agreement for split care and control of children.</p><p> </p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>11</td><td>Interim Judgment</td><td>P.2, r.10 FJ(G)R</td><td><p>To extract:</p><p> </p><p>(a) Interim Judgment for divorce / nullity / presumption of death and divorce; or</p><p>(b) Judgment of judicial separation.</p><p> </p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>12</td><td>Final Judgment</td><td><p>P.2, r.10 FJ(G)R</p><p>Third Schedule, Part 1, Division 4, Item 24 FJ(G)R</p></td><td>To extract Final Judgment for divorce / nullity / presumption of death and divorce.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>13</td><td><p>Originating Application for Permission to Seek Financial Relief after Foreign Divorce</p><p> </p></td><td>P.2, r.13 FJ(G)R</td><td>To seek the permission of the Court under section 121D of the Women’s Charter 1961 (“WC”) to make an application for financial relief after foreign divorce (under section 121B of the WC).</td><td>Includes supporting affidavit.</td></tr><tr><td>14</td><td>Originating Application for Financial Relief after Foreign Divorce / Division of Assets after Syariah Court Divorce</td><td><p>P.2, r.14 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.2, r.15 FJ(G)R</p></td><td><p>To make an application:</p><p> </p><p>(a) Under section 121B of the Women's Charter 1961; or</p><p>(b) For the disposition or division of property on divorce pursuant to section 17A(2)(c) of the Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1969.</p></td><td>Application made without supporting affidavit.</td></tr><tr><td>15</td><td>First Ancillary Affidavit</td><td>P. 2, r.16 FJ(G)R</td><td><p>To provide evidence of a party’s ancillary relief claims in:</p><p> </p><p>(a) Matrimonial proceedings;</p><p>(b) Proceedings under section 121B of the Women’s Charter 1961; or</p><p>(c) Proceedings under section 17A(2)(c) of the Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1969.</p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>16A</td><td>Summons for Further Affidavits</td><td><p>P. 2, r.16(6) FJ(G)R</p><p> </p></td><td>To seek the approval of the Court to file further affidavits.</td><td><p>To be used with Approval for Further Affidavits: The Applying Party’s table.</p><p> </p><p>May be filed with or without supporting affidavit.</p></td></tr><tr><td>16B</td><td>Approval for Further Affidavits: The Applying Party’s table</td><td>-</td><td>-</td><td><p>May be used alone if directed by the Court.</p><p> </p><p>To be used with Summons for Further Affidavits in an application.</p></td></tr><tr><td>16C</td><td>Reply to Approval for Further Affidavits: The Responding Party’s table</td><td>-</td><td>To respond to an application for approval to file further affidavit(s).</td><td>May be filed with or without supporting affidavit.</td></tr><tr><td>17A</td><td>Binding Summary of Positions</td><td><p>P.2, r.18 FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 20(2) PD</p></td><td><p>To state all parties’ final position on ancillary relief claims in:</p><p></p><p>(a) Matrimonial proceedings;</p><p>(b) Proceedings under section 121B of the Women’s Charter 1961; or</p><p>(c) Proceedings under section 17A(2)(c) of the Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1969,</p><p> </p><p>unless the Court directs the use of Form 17B.</p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>17B</td><td><p>Binding Summary of Positions (Simplified)</p><p> </p></td><td><p></p><p> P.2, r.18 FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 20(2) PD</p></td><td><p>To state parties’ final position on ancillary relief claims in:</p><p></p><p>(a) Matrimonial proceedings;</p><p>(b) Proceedings under section 121B of the Women’s Charter 1961; or</p><p>(c) Proceedings under section 17A(2)(c) of the Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1961,</p><p> </p><p>if the Court directs the use of this Form.</p></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>18</td><td>Core Document Bundle</td><td>Para 18(12) PD</td><td>Content page for compilation of key documents which he or she intends to rely on for the hearing.</td><td><p>May be used with any of the following:</p><p> </p><p>(a) Binding Summary of Positions;</p><p>(b) Written Submissions; or</p><p>(c) Appellant’s / Respondent’s Case in appeals.</p></td></tr><tr><td>19</td><td><p>Information from Applicant to Family Justice Courts on Status of Matrimonial Application</p><p> </p></td><td>Para 16(1) PD</td><td>For the Applicant to update on the progress of Matrimonial Proceedings after commencement pursuant to notice from the Court.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>20</td><td>Affidavit of Evidence-in-Chief (Contested)</td><td>-</td><td>For use only in contested divorce, nullity, judicial separation or presumption of death and divorce.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>21</td><td>Index of Bundle of Documents for Trial</td><td>Para 18(7) PD</td><td>Index of relevant or necessary documents to be included for trial</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>22</td><td><p>Originating Application for Permission to Apply for Divorce Within 3 Years of Marriage</p><p> </p></td><td>P. 5, r.1 FJ(G)R</td><td>To seek the Court’s permission to commence divorce proceedings within 3 years of marriage.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>23A</td><td>Written Complaint (Maintenance related matters)</td><td><p>P.3, r.7(2) FJ(G)R</p><p>P.3, r.24 FJ(G)R</p></td><td><p>To apply for:</p><p></p><p>(a) Maintenance for spouse or child(ren) under Part 8 of the Women’s Charter 1961;</p><p>(b) Variation or rescission of a maintenance order made under (a) above;</p><p>(c) Enforcement of the following orders:</p><p>  (i) a maintenance order under (a) or (b) above;</p><p>  (ii) an order for child or spousal maintenance issued by Family Justice Courts;</p><p>  (iii)   a maintenance order from the Tribunal of Maintenance of Parents;</p><p>  (iv) an order for Nafkah iddah or mutaah from the Singapore Syariah Court; or</p><p>(d) Variation or rescission or an enforcement order made under (c) above.</p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>23B</td><td>Written Complaint (Personal Protection related matters)</td><td><p>P.3, r.7(2) FJ(G)R</p><p>P.3, r.24 FJ(G)R</p></td><td><p>To apply for:</p><p></p><p>(a) Personal protection order under Part 7 of the Women’s Charter 1961; or</p><p>(b) Variation, suspension or revocation of a personal protection order made under (a) above.</p></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>23C</td><td><p>Written Complaint for Applications under Maintenance Orders (Reciprocal Enforcement) Act 1975</p><p> </p></td><td><p>P.3, r.7(2) FJ(G)R</p><p>P.3, r.24 FJ(G)R</p></td><td>To apply for orders under the Maintenance Orders (Reciprocal Enforcement) Act 1975.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>23D</td><td>Written Complaint for Recovery of Sums Expended to Maintain Child(ren) Accepted as Member(s) of the Family</td><td>P.3, r.7(2) FJ(G)R</td><td>To apply for recovery of sums expended by a person maintaining child(ren) by virtue of his or her duty under section 70(1) of the Women’s Charter 1961.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>24</td><td>Consent for Service by way of Email or Mobile Phone Number for Summonses made under Sections 71, 72 and 80 of the Women’s Charter 1961</td><td>Para 34 PD</td><td><p>To consent to service of summons by electronic means.</p><p> </p><p>Only for use in:</p><p>(a)  Maintenance enforcement proceedings; or</p><p>(b) Variation of Maintenance orders.</p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>25</td><td>Affidavit of Service</td><td><p>P.3, r.11(1) FJ(G)R</p><p>P.3, r.60 FJ(G)R</p><p> </p></td><td>When a person is required to file proof of service.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>26</td><td>Declaration of Service (Process Server)</td><td><p>P.3, r.11(2) FJ(G)R</p><p> </p></td><td><p>When the process server of the court is required to file proof of service.</p><p> </p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>27</td><td><p>Applicant’s Affidavit / Statement for Personal Protection Order</p><p> </p></td><td><p>P.3, r.19 FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 35(1) PD</p></td><td>To apply for Personal protection order under Part 7 of the Women’s Charter 1961.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>27-A</td><td>Notice of Objection Against an Application under Section 160A(4) of the Women’s Charter 1961</td><td>P.3, r.22C(3) FJ(G)R</td><td>To be filed by a person served with a Notice of Application under Section 160A(4) of the Women’s Charter 1961 to object to the application.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>27-B</td><td>Appointed Psychiatrist’s Affidavit / Statement to Vary or Revoke a Mandatory Treatment Order</td><td><p>P.3, r.22J(a) FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 35(1) PD</p></td><td>To provide evidence in support of an application by the appointed psychiatrist to vary or revoke a Mandatory Treatment Order.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>27-C</td><td>Applicant’s / Respondent’s Affidavit / Statement in response to an Application to Vary or Revoke a Mandatory Treatment Order</td><td><p>P.3, r.22J(2)(b) FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 35(1) PD</p></td><td>To be used by an applicant or respondent to respond to the appointed psychiatrist’s application to vary or revoke a Mandatory Treatment Order.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>28A</td><td>Applicant’s Affidavit / Statement for Maintenance Order</td><td><p>P.3, r.19 FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 35(1) PD</p></td><td><p>To apply for maintenance orders under Part 8 of the Women’s Charter 1961 for the following situations:</p><p> </p><p>(a) For self and/or children only;</p><p>(b) For incapacitated husband;</p><p>(c) For child maintenance from a person who has accepted a child as a member of the family</p><p> </p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>28B</td><td><p>Applicant’s Affidavit / Statement for Variation / Suspension / Rescission of Maintenance Order</p><p> </p></td><td><p>P.3, r.19 FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 35(1) PD</p></td><td>To apply for variation / suspension / rescission of maintenance order made.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>28C</td><td><p>Applicant’s Affidavit / Statement for Enforcement of Maintenance Order</p><p> </p></td><td><p>P.3, r.19 FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 35(1) PD</p></td><td>To apply for an enforcement of maintenance order made.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>28D</td><td><p>Respondent’s Affidavit / Statement in response to an Application for Maintenance Order</p><p> </p></td><td><p>P.3, r.19 FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 35(1) PD</p></td><td>To be used by a respondent to respond to a maintenance application.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>28E</td><td><p>Respondent’s Affidavit / Statement in Response to an Application for Variation / Suspension / Rescission of Maintenance Order</p><p> </p></td><td><p>P.3, r.19 FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 35(1) PD</p></td><td>To be used by a respondent to respond to a variation / suspension / rescission of maintenance order application.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>28F</td><td><p>Respondent’s Affidavit / Statement in response to an Application for Enforcement of Maintenance Order</p><p> </p></td><td><p>P.3, r.19 FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 35(1) PD</p></td><td>To be used by a respondent to respond to an enforcement of maintenance order application.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>29</td><td><p>Request by Maintenance Record Officer for Party’s Documents under Part 3, rule 20 FJ(G)R 2024</p><p> </p></td><td><p>P.3, r.20(1) FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 36(4) PD</p></td><td>To be used by a Maintenance Record Officer to request for documents and/or information from parties.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>29-A</td><td>Request by Maintenance Enforcement Officer for Information under Part 3, Rule 22N of the Family Justice (General) Rules 2024</td><td><p>P.3, r.22N FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 36A(4) PD</p></td><td>To be used by a Maintenance Enforcement Officer to request for documents and/or information from parties.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>30</td><td>Request to Examine the Maintenance Record Officer</td><td>P.3, r.20(6) FJ(G)R</td><td>To request to examine a maintenance record officer during a maintenance hearing.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>30-A</td><td>Request to Examine the Maintenance Enforcement Officer</td><td>P.3, r.22Q FJ(G)R</td><td>To request to examine a Maintenance Enforcement Officer during a maintenance hearing.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>31</td><td>Request for / Response to Disclosure</td><td><p>P.3, r.21 FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 33 PD</p></td><td><p>For use only in maintenance proceedings under Part 3 FJ(G)R to:</p><p> </p><p>(a) Request for the other party to disclose documents; or</p><p>(b) Respond to the request for disclosure of documents.</p></td><td><p>To be used in 3 ways:</p><p> </p><p>(a) Request for documents to be made within the maintenance statement / affidavit;</p><p>(b) Respond to (a) above within the maintenance reply statement / affidavit;</p><p>(c) In conjunction with the Application for Disclosure.</p></td></tr><tr><td>32</td><td>Application for Disclosure (iFAMS)</td><td>Para 33(3) PD</td><td>To make an Application to the Court where the requesting party is dissatisfied with the disclosing party’s disclosure of documents.</td><td>To annex the completed Request for / Response to Disclosure.</td></tr><tr><td>32-A</td><td>Notice to Court by Person Who is No Longer the Respondent’s Employer</td><td>P.3, r.22S(1) FJ(G)R</td><td>To be used by the person to whom an attachment of earnings order is directed to notify the court that the person is not or has not been the respondent’s employer.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>32-B</td><td>Notice to Court by Person Who Becomes the Respondent’s Employer</td><td>P.3, r.22S(2) FJ(G)R</td><td>To be used by the person who becomes the respondent’s employer to notify the court of the respondent’s employment.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>33</td><td><p>Maintenance Enforcement Order</p><p> </p></td><td>P.3, r.24 FJ(G)R</td><td>An enforcement order for attachment of debt.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>34</td><td>Notice of Attachment (MSS)</td><td>P.3, r.28(2) FJ(G)R</td><td><p>Notice of attachment in respect of enforcement order for attachment of debt.</p><p> </p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>35A</td><td><p>Written Complaint for applications under section 7(3) or 10(4) of the Vulnerable Adults Act 2018 (Application by Director-General or Protector)</p><p> </p></td><td><p>P. 3, r.7(2) FJ(G)R</p><p> </p></td><td><p>Only for use by Director-General or Protector.</p><p> </p><p>To apply under the Vulnerable Adults Act 2018 for:</p><p> </p><p>(a) Section 7(3) Assessment order; or</p><p>(b) Section 10(4) Removal order.</p><p> </p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>35B</td><td>Written Complaint for applications under section 11(2) or 14 of the Vulnerable Adults Act 2018 (Application by Director-General or Protector)</td><td><p></p><p>P. 3, r.7(2) FJ(G)R</p></td><td><p>Only for use by Director-General or Protector.</p><p> </p><p>To apply under the Vulnerable Adults Act 2018 for:</p><p> </p><p>(a) Section 11(2) Temporary order; or</p><p>(b) Section 14 Adult Protection (“AP”)-only orders.</p></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>35C</td><td>Written Complaint for applications under section 14, 17 or 22(4) of the Vulnerable Adults Act 2018 (Application by Director-General or Protector)</td><td><p></p><p>P. 3, r.7(2) FJ(G)R</p></td><td><p>Only for use by Director-General or Protector.</p><p> </p><p>To apply under the Vulnerable Adults Act 2018 for:</p><p> </p><p>(a) Section 14 Protective Orders;</p><p>(b) Variation, suspension or revocation of orders made under (a) above; or</p><p>(c) Section 22(4) Publication/ Broadcast Removal Order.</p></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>35D</td><td>Written Complaint for applications under section 14 or 17 of the Vulnerable Adults Act 2018</td><td><p></p><p>P. 3, r.7(2) FJ(G)R</p></td><td><p>To apply under the Vulnerable Adults Act 2018 for:</p><p> </p><p>(a) Section 14 protective orders; or</p><p>(b) Variation, suspension or revocation of protective orders made under (a) above.</p></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>35E</td><td><p>Written Complaint for applications under section 17 of the Vulnerable Adults Act 2018 (Application by Director-General or Protector)</p><p> </p></td><td><p>P. 3, r.7(2) FJ(G)R</p><p> </p></td><td><p>Only for use by Director-General or Protector.</p><p></p><p>To apply for variation, suspension or revocation of AP-only orders under the Vulnerable Adults Act 2018</p></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>35F</td><td><p>Written Complaint for applications under section 17 of the Vulnerable Adults Act 2018</p><p> </p></td><td>P. 3, r.7(2) FJ(G)R</td><td>To apply for variation, suspension or revocation of AP-only orders under the Vulnerable Adults Act 2018</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>36A</td><td>Mental Capacity Assessment Report (VAA)</td><td>P.3, r.45(2)(a) FJ(G)R</td><td>An assessment of the Vulnerable Adult’s mental capacity.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>36B</td><td><p>Physical Capacity Assessment Report (VAA)</p><p> </p></td><td>P.3, r.45(2)(b) FJ(G)R</td><td>An assessment of the Vulnerable Adult’s physical capacity.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>37</td><td>Consent of Vulnerable Adult (VAA)</td><td>P.3, r.46(1)(a) FJ(G)R</td><td>To be used by the Vulnerable Adult to indicate consent to an application.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>38</td><td>Consent of Owner of residence (VAA)</td><td>P.3, r.46(2)(a) FJ(G)R</td><td>To be used by the owner of residence to indicate consent to an application.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>39</td><td>Declaration (VAA)</td><td>P.3, r.46(3) FJ(G)R</td><td>To be used in place of the Consent of Vulnerable Adult if allowed by the Court.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>40A</td><td><p>Notice of Application (s.7, 10, 11, 14, 17 VAA)</p><p> </p></td><td><p>P3. r.8 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.3, r.47 FJ(G)R</p></td><td>To be served on the applicable persons when an application under the Vulnerable Adults Act 2018 is filed.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>40B</td><td><p>Notice of Application (s.22(4) VAA)</p><p> </p></td><td><p>P3. r.8 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.3, r.47 FJ(G)R</p></td><td>To be served on the applicable persons when an application under the Vulnerable Adults Act 2018 is filed.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>41</td><td>Notice of Objection (VAA)</td><td>P.3, r.48(1) FJ(G)R</td><td>To be filed by a person served with the Notice of Application to object to the application.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>42</td><td>Notice to dispute Mental Capacity (VAA)</td><td>P.3, r.48(3) FJ(G)R</td><td>To be used by a relevant person who disputes the Vulnerable Adult’s mental capacity.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>43</td><td>Notice to Owners of Residence (VAA)</td><td>P.3, r.49 FJ(G)R</td><td>To give notice to the owners of residence of the application filed under the Vulnerable Adults Act 2018.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>44</td><td>Application by Parent, Guardian of Child or Young Person (CYPA)</td><td><p>P.3, r.6 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.3, r.58 FJ(G)R</p></td><td><p>To be used by the parent or guardian to:</p><p> </p><p>(a) Apply for Court’s review of Director-General / Protector’s determination in Care and Protection applications;</p><p>(b) Apply for Court’s determination of decision by Director-General/protector/care-giver for child/young person under Care and Protection Order/Enhanced Care and Protection Order (ECPO);</p><p>(c) Apply for approval to vary or discharge an ECPO/vary or discharge an ECPO; or</p><p>(d) Vary or discharge a Family Guidance Order.</p><p> </p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>45</td><td><p>Notice of Application (Parent, Guardian) (CYPA)</p><p> </p></td><td><p>P.3, r.6 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.3, r.58 FJ(G)R</p></td><td>Notice of Application to Director General / Protector / Approved Welfare Officer.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>46</td><td>Application by Director-General, Protector, Approved Welfare Officer (CYPA)</td><td><p>P.3, r.6 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.3, r.58 FJ(G)R</p></td><td>To be used by the Director-General, Protector or Approved Welfare Officer.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>47</td><td><p>Notice of Application (Director-General, Protector, Approved Welfare Officer) (CYPA)</p><p> </p></td><td><p>P.3, r.6 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.3, r.58 FJ(G)R</p></td><td>Notice of Application to parent, guardian of child or young person.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>48</td><td><p>Application for Records of Court Proceedings</p><p> </p></td><td>Para 27(1)(b) PD</td><td>To apply for records of court proceedings.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>49</td><td><p>Notification on Appearances of Advocates / Prosecutors</p><p> </p></td><td>-</td><td>To notify the Court on appearances of advocates / prosecutors.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>49-A</td><td>Compliance Bond</td><td>Para 46E(1) PD</td><td>To be used when the Court (in an access enforcement application) orders a respondent to execute a compliance bond.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>50</td><td><p>Offer of Amicable Resolution</p><p> </p></td><td><p>P.4, r.2 FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 32 PD</p></td><td>To be used to propose amicable settlement of matter.</td><td>Not to be filed in Court unless otherwise directed.</td></tr><tr><td>51</td><td><p>Response to Offer of Amicable Resolution</p><p> </p></td><td><p>P.4, r.2 FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 32 PD</p></td><td>To respond to the Offer of Amicable Resolution.</td><td>Not to be filed in Court unless otherwise directed.</td></tr><tr><td>52</td><td><p>Withdrawal of Offer of Amicable Resolution</p><p> </p></td><td><p>P.4, r.2 FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 32 PD</p></td><td>To withdraw an Offer of Amicable Resolution.</td><td>Not to be filed in Court unless otherwise directed.</td></tr><tr><td>53</td><td><p>Generated Originating Application</p><p> </p></td><td><p>P.3, r.27 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.5, r.1 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.5, r.2 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.5, r.3 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.5, r.10 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.5, r.14 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.6, r.13 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.14, r.1(3) FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 100(1) PD</p><p>P.15, r.6(3)(a) FJ(G)R</p><p>P.20, r.3 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.21, r.1 FJ(G)R</p></td><td>-</td><td>The generated version of Form 53A.</td></tr><tr><td>53A</td><td>Generic Originating Application</td><td><p>P.3, r.27 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.5, r.1 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.5, r.2 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.5, r.3 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.5, r.10 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.5, r.14 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.6, r.13 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.14, r.1(3) FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 100(1) PD</p><p>P.15, r.6(3)(a) FJ(G)R</p><p>P.20, r.3 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.21, r.1 FJ(G)R</p></td><td><p></p><p>To commence proceedings where no specific Form is provided.</p></td><td><p>May be used for with notice (application   involves other party(ies)) or without notice (application does not involve other party(ies)) applications.</p><p> </p><p>Includes the endorsement for renewal of Originating Application.</p></td></tr><tr><td>53B</td><td>Originating Application: Generic Sections</td><td><p>P.3, r.27 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.5, r.1 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.5, r.2 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.5, r.3 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.5, r.10 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.5, r.14 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.6, r.13 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.14, r.1(3) FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 100(1) PD</p><p>P.15, r.6(3)(a) FJ(G)R</p><p>P.20, r.3 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.21, r.1 FJ(G)R</p></td><td>To provide party(ies)’ personal information commonly required when commencing an application.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>54</td><td>Generic Affidavit</td><td><p>P.2, r.9 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.2, r.16(4) FJ(G)R</p><p>P.2, r.16(6), FJ(G)R</p><p>P.2, r.19 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.2, r.20(3) FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 11 PD</p><p>P.3, r.12 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.3, r.29(4) FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 43 PD</p><p>Para 44 PD</p><p>P.5, r.1 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.5, r.4 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.5, r.12 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.5, r.13 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.5, r.15 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.5, r.16 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.5, r.18 FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 65 PD</p><p>Para 66 PD</p><p>Para 67 PD</p><p>Para 71 PD</p><p>P.10, r.7 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.14, r.1(3) FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 100 PD</p><p>P.15, r.5(6) FJ(G)R</p><p>P.15, r.6(3) FJ(G)R</p><p>P.15, r.24 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.15, r.31 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.15, r.33 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.20, r.3 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.21, r.1 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.23, r.2(4) FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 160(3),(4) PD</p><p> </p></td><td>To be used for filing supporting/reply affidavit unless specific forms are required.</td><td>Includes the exhibit page to be used for annexures.</td></tr><tr><td>55A</td><td>Originating Application / Summons for Children Orders (New Orders only)</td><td><p>P.5, r.1 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.5, r.15 FJ(G)R</p></td><td><p>To apply for:</p><p> </p><p>(a) Custody, care and control, access orders for child(ren), with or without maintenance for child(ren);</p><p>(b) Appointment of guardian of child(ren), with or without maintenance for child(ren);</p><p>(c) Maintenance for child(ren) under the Guardianship of Infants Act 1934 (“GIA”);</p><p>(d) Orders under GIA (excluding orders under sections 5A, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21); or</p><p>(e) Orders under section 17(1)(d) of the Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1969.</p><p> </p><p>For details on whether the application is to be made by Originating Application or summons, please refer to the help notes in the Form.</p><p> </p><p>For more details on when the form cannot be used, please refer to the help notes in the Form.</p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>55B</td><td>Originating Application / Summons for Children Orders (Variation / Rescission)</td><td><p>P.2, r.19 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.5, r.1 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.5, r.3 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.5, r.15 FJ(G)R</p></td><td><p>To apply for variation, rescission of orders relating to:</p><p> </p><p>(a) Orders pursuant to the Women’s Charter 1961 or the Guardianship of Infants Act 1934 (“GIA”) for custody, care and control, access orders for child(ren), with or without maintenance for children;</p><p>(b) Orders pursuant to the GIA for appointment of guardian of child(ren), with or without maintenance for child(ren); or</p><p>(c) Orders pursuant to the GIA or section 17(1)(d) of the Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1969 (“SCJA”) for maintenance of child(ren) with the following prefix: “OAG”, “OAGV”, “OSG” or “OSF” (with section 17(1)(d) SCJA in the citation).</p><p> </p><p>For details on whether the application is to be made by Originating Application or summons, please refer to the help notes in the Form.</p><p> </p><p>For more details on when the form cannot be used, please refer to the help notes in the Form.</p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>56A</td><td>Summons for Maintenance (New Orders only)</td><td>P.5, r.15 FJ(G)R</td><td><p>To apply for interim maintenance for:</p><p> </p><p>(a) Spouse only;</p><p>(b) Child(ren) only (without seeking custody, care and control and access orders); or</p><p>(c) Combination of (a) and (b).</p><p> </p><p>For more details on when the form cannot be used, please refer to the help notes in the Form.</p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>56B</td><td>Originating Application / Summons for Maintenance (Variation / Rescission)</td><td><p>P.2, r.19 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.5, r.3 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.5, r.15 FJ(G)R</p></td><td><p>To apply for variation or rescission of maintenance orders made in the Family Justice Courts:</p><p> </p><p>(a) With the prefix “OAD”, “OADT”, “OADV”, “OADTV”, “D” or “DT”; or</p><p>(b) After a foreign divorce (pursuant to section 121B Women’s Charter 1961).</p><p> </p><p>For details on whether the application is to be made by Originating Application or summons, please refer to the help notes in the Form.</p><p> </p><p>For more details on when the form cannot be used, please refer to the help notes in the Form. </p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>57</td><td>Originating Application for Adoption of Child</td><td>P.5, r.5 FJ(G)R</td><td>To apply for an Adoption order.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>57A</td><td>Affidavit for Adoption Order</td><td>P.5, r.5 FJ(G)R</td><td>To provide evidence to support Form 57.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>58</td><td>Notice of Syariah Court Proceedings</td><td>P.5, r.6 FJ(G)R</td><td>To be used when the permission of Syariah Court is required to commence or continue proceedings in a Family Court.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>59</td><td>Originating Application for Orders pursuant to the Mental Capacity Act 2008</td><td><p>P.5, r.7 FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 56 PD</p></td><td>To apply for orders under Mental Capacity Act 2008.</td><td>May be used instead of Simplified MCA application although the Applicant satisfies the requirements to file a Simplified application.</td></tr><tr><td>60</td><td>Affidavit (For Appointment of Deputies)</td><td><p>P.5, r.7 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.7, r.20 FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 59(6) PD</p><p> </p></td><td>To provide evidence to support Form 59.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>61</td><td>Affidavit (Doctor’s Affidavit)</td><td>Para 59(7) PD</td><td><p>To be used to support:</p><p> </p><p>(a)        Form 59; or</p><p> </p><p>(b)        Form 64.</p><p> </p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>62</td><td><p>Affidavit (For Appointment of Successor Deputy)</p><p> </p></td><td>Para 59(9) PD</td><td>To be used for an application to be appointed as the successor deputy of the Patient.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>63</td><td><p>Affidavit (For Direct Payment – No Deputy)</p><p> </p></td><td>-</td><td>To apply for direct payment of Patient’s expenses to an organisation without appointment of deputy.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>64</td><td>Application form (Simplified MCA)</td><td>P.5, r.8 FJ(G)R</td><td>To apply for a restricted category of orders under Mental Capacity Act 2008 set out in paragraph 61 of these Practice Directions.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>65</td><td><p>Affidavit for proceedings under MCA (Simplified)</p><p> </p></td><td>P.5, r.8 FJ(G)R</td><td><p>To be used only in conjunction with Form 64.</p><p> </p></td><td><p>Not mandatory. May be filed together with the simplified MCA application.</p><p> </p></td></tr><tr><td>66</td><td>Letter of Objection (Simplified MCA)</td><td>P.5, r.8(4) FJ(G)R</td><td>For a Relevant Person to object to a Simplified MCA application.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>67</td><td>Generated Summons</td><td><p>P.2, r.9 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.2, r.19 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.3, r.12 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.3, r.27 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.3, r.31 FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 43 PD</p><p>Para 44 PD</p><p>P.5, r.4 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.5, r.13 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.5, r.15 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.5, r.19 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.6, r.6(2) FJ(G)R</p><p>P.6, r.11(2), (3) FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 64(2) PD</p><p>Para 65 PD</p><p>Para 66 PD</p><p>Para 67 PD</p><p>Para 77(1) PD</p><p>P.14, r.1(3) FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 100(1) PD</p><p>P.15, r.5(6) FJ(G)R</p><p>P.15, r.6(3)(b) FJ(G)R</p><p>P.21, r.1 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.23, r.2(3) FJ(G)R</p><p>P.24, r.4 FJ(G)R</p></td><td>-</td><td>The generated version of Form 67A.</td></tr><tr><td>67A</td><td>Generic Summons / Application</td><td><p>P.2, r.9 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.2, r.19 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.3, r.12 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.3, r.27 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.3, r.31 FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 43 PD</p><p>Para 44 PD</p><p>P.5, r.4 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.5, r.13 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.5, r.15 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.5, r.19 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.6, r.6(2) FJ(G)R</p><p>P.6, r.11(2), (3) FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 64(2) PD</p><p>Para 65 PD</p><p>Para 66 PD</p><p>Para 67 PD</p><p>Para 77(1) PD</p><p>P.14, r.1(3) FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 100(1) PD</p><p>P.15, r.5(6) FJ(G)R</p><p>P.15, r.6(3)(b) FJ(G)R</p><p>P.21, r.1 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.23, r.2(3) FJ(G)R</p><p>P.24, r.4 FJ(G)R</p></td><td>To be used for all procedural or interlocutory applications if no specific form is provided. This Form is commonly filed in pending originating applications or applications under the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 (P.3 FJ(G)R).</td><td>May be used for applications with notice (application involves other party(ies)) or without notice (application does not involve other party(ies)).</td></tr><tr><td>68</td><td><p>Originating Application for Orders under Section 8 / 14 of the International Child Abduction Act 2010</p><p> </p></td><td>P.5, r.17 FJ(G)R</td><td>To apply for orders under sections 8 and 14 of the International Child Abduction Act 2010.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>69</td><td><p>Cover Letter for Submission of Original Birth Certificate in Adoption Proceedings</p><p> </p></td><td>Para 54 PD</td><td>When the applicant is required to submit the original birth certificate and the original translation of the birth certificate (if any) of the infant.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>70</td><td><p>Statement (For Determination or Declaration of Parenthood)</p><p> </p></td><td>Para 62 PD</td><td>To be included in an application for the determination or declaration of parenthood under the Status of Children (Assisted Reproduction Technology) Act 2013.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>71A</td><td>Notice of Proceedings (General)</td><td><p>Para 74(4), (6) PD</p><p>Third Schedule, Part 1, Division 4, Item 15 FJ(G)R</p></td><td><p>To be served together with an Originating Application which has no unique Notice of Proceedings.</p><p> </p><p>Can be used together with Form 71C for different Relevant Persons.</p><p> </p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>71B</td><td><p>Notice of Proceedings (Simplified divorce / Judicial Separation)</p><p> </p></td><td>-</td><td>To be served together with a simplified Originating Application for Divorce / Judicial Separation.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>71C</td><td>Notice of Proceedings (Organisation)</td><td>Para 74(9) PD</td><td>To be served together with an Originating Application under Mental Capacity Act 2008 when the Patient resides at an organisation providing residential accommodation.</td><td>Used in MCA proceedings (simplified) and non-simplified.</td></tr><tr><td>71D</td><td>Notice of Proceedings (Simplified MCA)</td><td>-</td><td><p>To be served together with a simplified Mental Capacity Act 2008 application form.</p><p> </p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>72</td><td>Notice of Proceedings (Advertisement)</td><td>-</td><td>To notify the recipient of court proceedings if the Court orders substituted service by advertisement.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>73</td><td>Consent to Act as Litigation Representative</td><td>P.6, r.10 FJ(G)R</td><td><p>To enable a person to act as litigation representative of a person under disability.</p><p> </p><p>Not necessary if there is a court order appointing the litigation representative.</p></td><td>For filing under the IELS, the form is an “E-FORM”. For filing under the iFAMS, the form is to be filed in PDF format.</td></tr><tr><td>74</td><td>Certificate by Solicitor Acting for Litigation Representative</td><td>P.6, r.10 FJ(G)R</td><td><p>To be used with Consent to Act as Litigation Representative unless the litigation representative is authorised under the Mental Capacity Act 2008 to act for the party lacking capacity.</p><p> </p><p>Not necessary if there is a court order appointing the litigation representative.</p></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>75</td><td>Notice of Change of Representation</td><td><p>Para 28 PD</p><p>P.6, r.15 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.6, r.16(4) FJ(G)R</p></td><td><p>To be filed by a party or solicitor to notify of:</p><p> </p><p>(a) Appointment of solicitors;</p><p>(b) Change of solicitors; or</p><p>(c) Discharge of solicitors.</p></td><td><p>May be filed in eLitigation or iFAMS.</p><p> </p><p> </p></td></tr><tr><td>76</td><td><p>Summons for Discharge of Solicitor</p><p> </p></td><td>P.6, r.16(2) FJ(G)R</td><td>To apply to Court for discharge of solicitor.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>77</td><td>Acknowledgment of Service</td><td>P.7, r.3 FJ(G)R</td><td>To be filed by a respondent when he or she acknowledges service of the Originating Application.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>78A</td><td>Affidavit of Service (Failed Attempts)</td><td><p>P.7, r.3 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.7, r.8 FJ(G)R</p></td><td>As evidence of attempted (but unsuccessful) service.</td><td>Generally used in conjunction with Summons for substituted service / dispensation of service.</td></tr><tr><td>78B</td><td>Affidavit of Service (Successful Attempt)</td><td><p>P.2, r. 8 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.5, r.18 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.7, r.3 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.7, r.8 FJ(G)R</p></td><td>As evidence of successful attempt of service.</td><td>May be used as evidence of “deemed personal service”.</td></tr><tr><td>79</td><td>Summons for Substituted Service / Dispensation of Service</td><td><p>P.7, r.6 FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 70(1) PD</p></td><td><p>Where personal service is required, to apply for:</p><p> </p><p>(a) Substituted service, i.e. service by alternative manner; or</p><p>(b) Dispensation of service, i.e. no service is required.</p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>80</td><td>Summons for Service out of Jurisdiction</td><td>P.7, r.10 FJ(G)R</td><td><p>To apply for approval of court to serve an originating application or other court document out of Singapore.</p><p> </p><p>Exceptions:</p><p> </p><p>(a) The court’s approval is not required for an Originating Application under Part 10 Women’s Charter 1961;</p><p>(b) In relation to an Originating Application for Orders pursuant to the Mental Capacity Act 2008, the court’s approval may be sought within the Originating Application in respect of service on a relevant person outside Singapore if effected by email.</p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>81</td><td>Declaration of Notification</td><td><p>P.7, r.22 FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 76 PD</p></td><td>To give notice that the Patient in MCA proceedings is notified of the matters in P.7, r.22(2) FJ(G)R.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>82A</td><td>Summons / Application for Striking Out</td><td><p>P.8, r.12 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.3, r.12 FJ(G)R</p></td><td><p>To strike out the whole or any part of:</p><p> </p><p>(a) An originating application;</p><p>(b) A summons;</p><p>(c) A reply; or</p><p>(d) An affidavit.</p></td><td><p>To be used with Striking Out Table.</p><p> </p><p>May be filed with or without supporting affidavit.</p></td></tr><tr><td>82B</td><td>Striking Out Table</td><td><p>P.8, r.12 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.3, r.12 FJ(G)R</p></td><td><p>To strike out the whole or any part of:</p><p> </p><p>(a) An originating application;</p><p>(b) A summons / application;</p><p>(c) A reply; or</p><p>(d) An affidavit.</p></td><td><p>May be used alone if directed by the Court.</p><p> </p><p>To be used with Summons / Application for Striking Out.</p></td></tr><tr><td>83</td><td>Summary for Mediation</td><td>Para 83(3) PD</td><td>To be completed and submitted by all parties at mediation, as directed by the Court.</td><td>Not mandatory unless directed by the Court.</td></tr><tr><td>83-AA</td><td>Joint Consent Form for Family Neutral Evaluation</td><td>Para 86(2)(a) PD</td><td><p>To be jointly completed and submitted by parties who agree to submit their divorce financial issues for Family Neutral Evaluation.</p><p> </p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>83-AB</td><td>Statement for Family Neutral Evaluation</td><td>Para 86(3)(b) PD</td><td><p>To be completed and submitted by each party before the Preliminary Conference.</p><p> </p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>83-AC</td><td><p>Joint Statement for Family Neutral Evaluation</p><p> </p></td><td>Para 86(8)(b) PD</td><td>To be jointly completed and submitted by parties before the Family Neutral Evaluation session.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>83-AD</td><td>Agreement for Binding Family Neutral Evaluation</td><td>Para 86(7) PD</td><td>To be jointly completed and submitted by parties who agree to a binding Family Neutral Evaluation.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>84</td><td>Summons for Disclosure / Originating Application / Summons for Permission to Seek Disclosure</td><td><p>P.2, r.17 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.9, r.5 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.9, r.10 FJ(G)R</p><p> </p></td><td><p>To apply for:</p><p> </p><p>(a) Disclosure against a party;</p><p>(b) Permission and disclosure against a non-party; or</p><p>(c) Permission and disclosure against a potential party (pre-action).</p><p> </p><p>Only used for proceedings filed in eLitigation.</p></td><td><p>To be used with Disclosure Table.</p><p> </p><p>May be filed with or without Disclosure Affidavit.</p></td></tr><tr><td>85</td><td>Disclosure Table: The Applying Party’s Table</td><td><p>P.2, r.17 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.9, r.5 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.9, r.10 FJ(G)R</p><p> </p></td><td><p> Only used for proceedings filed in eLitigation.</p><p> </p></td><td>To be used with Form 84 in an application.</td></tr><tr><td>85A</td><td><p>Information on Agreed Voluntary Disclosure</p><p> </p></td><td>Para 92(2) PD</td><td>To inform the Court of the agreed scope of voluntary disclosure.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>86</td><td>Disclosure Affidavit</td><td><p>P.2, r.17 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.3, r.21 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.9, r.5 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.9, r.10 FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 33(3) PD</p></td><td><p>To:</p><p> </p><p>(a) Provide new evidence to support the disclosure application;</p><p>(b) Elaborate on the reasons for the application; and / or</p><p>(c) Explain the “special circumstances” which supports the application.</p><p> </p><p>Used for proceedings filed in eLitigation and iFAMS (if allowed by the Court).</p><p> </p></td><td><p>Note: The disclosure affidavit template must be used IF the party wants to file a supporting affidavit.</p><p> </p><p>The party should NOT be using a generic affidavit template to support a disclosure application.</p></td></tr><tr><td>87</td><td>Reply to Disclosure: The Responding Party’s Table</td><td><p>P.2, r.17 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.9, r.5 FJ(G)R</p></td><td><p>To respond to an application for disclosure.</p><p> </p><p>Only used for proceedings filed in eLitigation.</p></td><td>May be used with or without a supporting affidavit.</td></tr><tr><td>88</td><td>Notice to Inspect</td><td>Para 91 PD</td><td>To request for inspection of original documents.</td><td><p>Not mandatory.</p><p> </p><p>May be used in 2 ways:</p><p> </p><p>(a) As a request (without formal summons); or</p><p>(b) In conjunction with the formal Summons to Inspect.</p><p> </p></td></tr><tr><td>89</td><td>Summons to Inspect</td><td><p>P.9, r.15(3) FJ(G)R</p><p> </p></td><td>To apply for inspection of original documents.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>90</td><td>Application for the Appointment of Expert in Respect of Custody and Access Issues</td><td>Para 95(1) PD</td><td><p>For use in proceedings relating to welfare or custody of child(ren) to apply for the Court’s permission to:</p><p> </p><p>(a) Examine the child(ren);</p><p>(b) Use a court expert in relation to the child(ren); or</p><p>(c) Rely on a medical report on the child(ren).</p></td><td><p>To be used in conjunction with:</p><p> </p><p>(a) Expert witness template;</p><p>(b) Letter of Instruction to Expert Witness (Child);</p><p>(c) Note to expert witness.</p><p> </p></td></tr><tr><td>91</td><td><p>Letter of Instruction to Expert Witness (Child)</p><p> </p></td><td>Para 96(5)(a) PD</td><td>-</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>92</td><td>Note to Expert Witness</td><td>Para 96(5)(b) PD</td><td><p>To be provided to expert witnesses.</p><p> </p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>93</td><td>Expert Witness Template</td><td><p>Para 95(2) PD</p><p>Para 96(2) and (3) PD</p></td><td>To be used when the Court is required to permit the use of a court expert.</td><td><p>May be used:</p><p> </p><p>(a) In a formal application; or</p><p>(b) For discussion at a Case Conference.</p></td></tr><tr><td>94</td><td><p>Submission by Child Representative</p><p> </p></td><td>P.12, r.11 FJ(G)R</td><td>To be completed by the appointed Child Representative for submission to Court.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>95</td><td><p>Notice of Address for Service on Child Representative</p><p> </p></td><td>Para 98(4) PD</td><td>To be completed by the appointed Child Representative to inform parties of his / her address for service.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>96</td><td>Progress Summary</td><td>P.13, r.6 FJ(G)R</td><td>When the Court directs the parenting coordinator to submit on parenting matters that were addressed or resolved during the parenting coordination programme.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>97</td><td><p>Notice of Acceptance/Non-Acceptance by Parenting Coordinator</p><p> </p></td><td>Para 99(1) PD</td><td>For a selected parenting coordinator to indicate acceptance or non-acceptance of his / her appointment.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>98</td><td>Injunction Prohibiting Disposal of Assets in Singapore</td><td><p>P.14, r.1(8) FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 101(1)(b) PD</p></td><td>The court order to be prepared in draft form and attached to an application for injunction.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>99</td><td><p>Injunction Prohibiting Disposal of Assets Worldwide</p><p> </p></td><td><p>P.14, r.1(9) FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 101(1)(a) PD</p></td><td>-</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>100</td><td>Receiver’s Security by Undertaking</td><td>P.14, r.5(3)(b) FJ(G)R</td><td>When the security to be given by the receiver does not exceed $10,000</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>101</td><td>Pre-Trial Form &#x26;:</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Request for an Order to Attend Court</td><td><p></p><p> P.15, r.5(1) FJ(G)R</p></td><td>To use <strong>Annex A</strong> to request for an Order to attend Court (Form 102).</td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Notice of Objection to Affidavit(s) of Evidence-in-Chief</td><td><p>P.15, r.16(6) FJ(G)R</p><p> </p></td><td>To use <strong>Annex C</strong> to object to the contents of any affidavit of evidence-in-chief on the ground of admissibility or other reasons.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td><p></p><p> </p></td><td>Notice of Admitting Hearsay Evidence under section 32(1) of the Evidence Act 1893</td><td>P.15, r.16(7) FJ(G)R</td><td>To use <strong>Annex E</strong> to rely on a statement in any affidavit of evidence-in-chief pursuant to section 32 of the Evidence Act 1893.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td><p>Notice to Refer to Affidavit(s)</p><p> </p></td><td>P.15, r.19 FJ(G)R</td><td>To use <strong>Annex B</strong> to give notice of intention to rely on affidavits filed in other applications or proceedings.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Notice to Refer to Pre-Trial Examination</td><td>P.15, r.16(11) FJ(G)R</td><td>To use <strong>Annex D</strong> to refer to pre-trial examination.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>102</td><td>Order to Attend Court</td><td>P.15, r.5 FJ(G)R</td><td><p>To be issued after the Court approves a Request for an Order to Attend Court to require:</p><p> </p><p>(a)   A person to attend Court;</p><p>(b) A person to produce documents at trial; or</p><p>(c) An incarcerated person to attend Court.</p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>103</td><td>Order for Issue of Letter of Request to Relevant Authority Out of Jurisdiction</td><td><p>P.15, r.6(1) FJ(G)R</p><p>P.15, r.8(4) FJ(G)R</p></td><td>To be issued by the Family Division of the High Court if the Court allows a person to give evidence virtually from a country which requires a letter of request.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>104</td><td><p>Letter of Request for Examination of Witness Out of Jurisdiction / Permission for Evidence to be Given by Live Video or Live Television Link by Witness Out of Jurisdiction</p><p> </p></td><td><p>P.15, r.6(5) FJ(G)R</p><p>P.15, r.8(5)(a) FJ(G)R</p></td><td><p>To be filed by the requesting party pursuant to the Order for Issue of Letter of Request to Relevant Authority out of Jurisdiction.</p><p> </p><p>Not to be used if the jurisdiction is a Hague Evidence Convention country.</p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>105</td><td>Undertaking as to Expenses</td><td><p>P.15, r.6(8) FJ(G)R</p><p>P.15, r.8(5)(b) FJ(G)R</p></td><td>To be filed in conjunction with Form 104 or the equivalent document (Recommended Model Form for Hague Evidence Convention countries).</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>106</td><td>Form of Attestation</td><td><p>P.15, r.25(1) FJ(G)R</p><p>P.15, r.28 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.15, r.29 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.15, r. 30 FJ(G)R</p><p> </p></td><td><p>To be used in Court documents which require attestation before a Commissioner for Oaths.</p><p> </p></td><td><p>Includes the endorsements for attestations done by a maker who:</p><p> </p><p>(a) Requires interpretation; or</p><p>(b) Is blind or illiterate.</p></td></tr><tr><td>107</td><td>Form of Declaration</td><td>P.15, r.25(2) FJ(G)R</td><td><p>To be used in place of Form of Attestation wherever allowed in Court documents.</p><p> </p><p>Generally used in Court documents submitted through the iFAMS system.</p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>108A</td><td>Consent (General)</td><td><p>P.15, r.35 FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 14 PD</p></td><td><p>To consent to:</p><p> </p><p>(a) Divorce, nullity, judicial separation, excluding simplified proceedings and ancillary orders;</p><p>(b) Other civil proceedings and summonses under the FJ(G)R, excluding</p><p>  (i) Mental Capacity Act 2008 proceedings;</p><p>  (ii)  Adoption proceedings if Consent (Relevant Person) found in the Adoption of Children (General) Regulations 2024 applies; and</p><p>(c) Appeals or applications in appeals heard in the Family Division of the High Court.</p><p> </p><p>Not for use in applications under the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 (P.3 FJ(G)R).</p><p> </p><p>Refer to the Form for details.</p></td><td><p>Parties may set out their agreed terms in the consent to be recorded as a Court order.</p><p> </p><p> </p></td></tr><tr><td>108B</td><td><p>Consent (Mental Capacity Act 2008)</p><p> </p></td><td><p>P.15, r.35 FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 75(1) PD</p><p>Para 77(2) PD</p></td><td><p>To be used to consent to any application (including summons) under the Mental Capacity Act 2008.</p><p> </p></td><td><p>May be used for:</p><p> </p><p>(a) Mental Capacity Act 2008 applications (simplified); or</p><p> </p><p>(b) Non-simplified Mental Capacity Act 2008 applications.</p></td></tr><tr><td>109</td><td><p>Request for Production of Documents Filed in Court or Court’s Records</p><p> </p></td><td><p>P.15, r.5 FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 131(2) PD</p></td><td>To request for production of documents filed in court or court’s records.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>110</td><td><p>Affidavit to exercise the Registrar’s Empowerment Clause</p><p> </p></td><td>Para 106(17)(b)(ii) PD</td><td>To provide evidence in support of the party’s request for the Registrar to sign certain documents.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>111</td><td>Notice of Withdrawal / Discontinuance</td><td><p>P.16, r.1 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.16, r.2 FJ(G)R</p><p> </p></td><td><p>To discontinue the proceedings or withdraw any particular claim.</p><p> </p><p>For use only in:</p><p> </p><p>(a)       Originating Applications;</p><p> </p><p>(b)      Summonses in Originating Applications; or</p><p> </p><p>(c)       P.3, r.12 FJ(G)R Applications (within quasi-criminal proceedings).</p><p> </p><p>Not for use in:</p><p> </p><p>(a)   Appeals; and</p><p> </p><p>(b)      Applications in appeals.</p><p> </p></td><td><p>Includes consent to withdrawal / discontinuance.</p><p> </p><p> </p></td></tr><tr><td>112</td><td><p>Notice of Payment into Court</p><p> </p></td><td>P.17, r.1 FJ(G)R</td><td>To give notice of the payment or further payment into court.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>113</td><td><p>Notice of Acceptance of Money Paid into Court</p><p> </p></td><td><p>P.17, r.3 FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 141(2)(b) PD</p></td><td><p>To give notice of acceptance of payment into court.</p><p> </p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>114</td><td><p>Generic Order of Court</p><p> </p></td><td>P.18, r.3 FJ(G)R</td><td>To be used unless specific court orders are provided.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>115</td><td><p>Order of Court to Prevent the Removal or for the Return of Child(ren)</p><p> </p></td><td><p>Para 105(4) PD</p><p>Para 118(1)(a) PD</p></td><td>To submit in draft form the Court during the hearing of the application.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>116A</td><td>Order for Seizure (Infant)</td><td>Para 118(1)(a) PD</td><td><p>To be used if the bailiff is to enforce the Order of Court for the return of child(ren).</p><p> </p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>116B</td><td>Request for Attendance of Bailiff (Seizure of Infant)</td><td>Para 118(1)(a) PD</td><td>To be filed together with Form 116A.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>116C</td><td><p>Letter of Indemnity (Seizure of Infant)</p><p> </p></td><td>Para 118(1)(a) PD</td><td>-</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>117A</td><td><p>Request for Assistance to the Immigration and Checkpoints Authority (“ICA”)</p><p> </p></td><td>Para 103(3) PD</td><td><p>To be completed and sent to the ICA by the parent requesting ICA’s assistance pursuant to a court order restricting child(ren) from leaving Singapore.</p><p> </p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>117B</td><td><p>Letter of Consent for International Travel of Child(ren)</p><p> </p></td><td>Para 103(4) PD</td><td>To provide consent to the ICA for international travel of child(ren).</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>118</td><td><p>Interim Order (Adoption)</p><p> </p></td><td>-</td><td>When the court grants an interim order for adoption proceedings.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>119A</td><td><p>Adoption Order (Child Born in Singapore)</p><p> </p></td><td>-</td><td>When a party is required to draw up and file the adoption order of court.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>119B</td><td><p>Adoption Order (Child Born Outside Singapore)</p><p> </p></td><td>-</td><td>-</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>120</td><td><p>Schedule to the Order of Court (For Determination or Declaration of Parenthood)</p><p> </p></td><td>-</td><td>To be included as a schedule when a party is required to extract the order of court for the determination or declaration of parenthood under the Status of Children (Assisted Reproduction Technology) Act 2013.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>121</td><td>Enforcement Order</td><td>P.23, r.2(3) FJ(G)R</td><td>When a party is required to file the enforcement order.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>122</td><td><p>Consent to Entry of Satisfaction</p><p> </p></td><td>P.23, r.3 FJ(G)R</td><td>To be filed by a person who has satisfied a judgment debt.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>123</td><td><p>Notice of Seizure/Attachment</p><p> </p></td><td>P.23, r.6(5) FJ(G)R</td><td>To give notice of property(ies) to be seized or attached.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>124</td><td>Order for Examination of Enforcement Respondent</td><td><p>P.23, r.11 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.3, r.30(4) FJ(G)R</p></td><td><p>For use in:</p><p> </p><p>(a)       Maintenance proceedings under Part 8 of Women’s Charter 1961; or</p><p> </p><p>(b)      Enforcement of court orders under FJ(G)R.</p><p> </p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>125</td><td><p>Request for Attendance of the Bailiff</p><p> </p></td><td>Para 158(1) PD</td><td>To be filed when a party requires the attendance of the bailiff.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>126</td><td>Notice of Objection (Enforcement)</td><td><p>Para 160(1) PD</p><p>P.3, r.29 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.23, r.10 FJ(G)R</p></td><td><p>To be filed by the enforcement respondent or objector to object to any attachment of debt.</p><p> </p><p>For use in:</p><p> </p><p>(a)       Maintenance proceedings under Part 8 of Women’s Charter 1961; or</p><p> </p><p>(b)      Enforcement of court orders under FJ(G)R.</p><p> </p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>127</td><td>Consent to Release</td><td><p>Para 160(2) PD</p><p>P.3, r.29 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.23, r.10 FJ(G)R</p></td><td><p>To be filed by the enforcement applicant to accept the grounds of objection.</p><p> </p><p>For use in:</p><p> </p><p>(a)       Maintenance proceedings under Part 8 of Women’s Charter 1961; or</p><p> </p><p>(b)      Enforcement of court orders under FJ(G)R.</p><p> </p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>128</td><td>Notice of Dispute to Objection</td><td>P.23, r.10 FJ(G)R</td><td><p>To be filed by the enforcement applicant to dispute the grounds of objection.</p><p> </p><p>For use in:</p><p> </p><p>(a)     Maintenance proceedings under Part 8 of Women’s Charter 1961; or</p><p> </p><p>(b)     Enforcement of court orders under FJ(G)R.</p><p> </p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>129</td><td>Summons / Application for Order Determining the Ground of Objection</td><td><p>Para 160(3) PD</p><p>P.3, r.29 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.23, r.3 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.23, r.10 FJ(G)R</p></td><td><p>To be filed by the objector for release of the specified debt.</p><p> </p><p>For use in:</p><p> </p><p>(a)       Maintenance proceedings under Part 8 of Women’s Charter 1961; or</p><p> </p><p>(b)      Enforcement of court orders under FJ(G)R.</p><p> </p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>130</td><td>Summons / Application for Order to Release Property / Debt</td><td><p>Para 160(4) PD</p><p>P.23, r.3 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.23, r.10 FJ(G)R</p></td><td><p>To be filed by the objector if directed by the bailiff to apply to court when an enforcement applicant fails to file a Consent to Release or a Notice of Dispute to Objection within the prescribed timeline.</p><p> </p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>131A</td><td><p>Questionnaire for the Examination of Individual Enforcement Respondent</p><p> </p></td><td><p>P.23, r.11 FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 164(1) PD</p></td><td>To be completed for the examination of individual enforcement respondent.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>131B</td><td><p>Questionnaire for the Examination of Officer of Enforcement Respondent</p><p> </p></td><td><p>23, r.11 FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 164(1) PD</p></td><td> To be completed for the examination of officer of enforcement respondent.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td> 132</td><td><p>Requisition for Impressed Stamps</p><p> </p></td><td>Para 168(1) PD</td><td>When a person requests for documents to be stamped.</td><td> </td></tr></tbody></table>

**Forms in Appendix B (Common forms for use in Family Justice (General) Rules 2024 and Family Justice (Probate and Other Matters) Rules 2024)**

<table data-full-width="true"><thead><tr><th width="90">Form No.</th><th width="222">Form Title</th><th width="237">Applicable Rule(s) / PD Paragraph(s)</th><th width="351">When should the form be used?</th><th>Remarks</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>133</td><td>Notice of Change of Party Details</td><td>-</td><td>To inform the court and other parties of change in contact and correspondence details.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>134</td><td><p>Request for Urgent Hearing before Duty Judge</p><p> </p></td><td>Para 107(2) PD</td><td>To request for urgent hearing before the Duty Judge.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>135</td><td>Withdrawal of Appeal or Application in Appeal</td><td><p>P.19, r.13 FJ(G)R</p><p> </p><p>P.12, r.12 FJ(P)R</p><p>P.13, r.15 FJ(P)R</p></td><td>To withdraw an appeal or application in appeal.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>136</td><td>Notice of Appeal</td><td><p>P.19, r.17 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.19, r.19 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.19, r.21 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.19, r.27 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.19, r.28 FJ(G)R</p><p> </p><p>P.12, r.15 FJ(P)R</p><p>P.12, r.17 FJ(P)R</p><p>P.12, r.19 FJ(P)R</p><p>P.12, r.24 FJ(P)R</p><p>P.13, r.4 FJ(P)R</p><p>P.13, r.5 FJ(P)R</p></td><td>To bring an appeal against a decision of the court.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>137</td><td>Certificate for Security for Costs</td><td><p>P.19, r.22(1) FJ(G)R</p><p>P.19, r.29(1) FJ(G)R</p><p> </p><p>P.12, r.20(1) FJ(P)R</p><p>P.13, r.8(1) FJ(P)R</p></td><td>For the appellant to provide security for the respondent’s costs of the appeal.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>138</td><td>Undertaking for Security for Costs</td><td><p>P.19, r.22(4)(a) FJ(G)R</p><p>P.19, r.29(4)(a) FJ(G)R</p><p>P.12, r.20(4) FJ(P)R</p><p>P.13, r.8(4) FJ(P)R</p></td><td>For a solicitor to give an undertaking for security for costs.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>139</td><td>Record of Appeal</td><td><p>P.19, r.25, 30 FJ(G)R</p><p> </p><p>P.13, r.9 FJ(P)R</p></td><td>To be filed by the appellant if the appeal is to be heard in the Family Division of the High Court against a Family Court order.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>140</td><td>Bill of Costs for Contentious Business – Trials</td><td>Para 152(c)(i)(B) PD</td><td><p>For a party or a solicitor to apply to the Court to assess legal costs*.</p><p> </p><p><em>*party-and-party costs / solicitor-client costs</em></p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>141</td><td>Bill of Costs for Contentious Business Other Than Trials</td><td>Para 152(c)(i)(C) PD</td><td><p> For a party or a solicitor to apply to the Court to assess legal costs*.</p><p> </p><p><em>*party-and-party costs / solicitor-client costs</em></p></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>142</td><td><p>Bill of Costs for Non-Contentious Business</p><p> </p></td><td>Para 152(c)(i)(D) PD</td><td><p> For a party or a solicitor to apply to the Court to assess legal costs*.</p><p> </p><p><em>*party-and-party costs / solicitor-client costs</em></p></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>143</td><td><p>Notice of Dispute on Bill of Costs</p><p> </p></td><td>Para 154(1) PD</td><td>To dispute Forms 140, 141 or 142.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>144</td><td>Committal Order</td><td><p>P.9, r.16 FJ(G)R</p><p>P.24, r.12 FJ(G)R</p><p> </p><p>P.15, r.11 FJ(P)R</p></td><td>To be filed after the court grants an order for committal.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>145</td><td><p>Affidavit Verifying Form Showing Lack of Means</p><p> </p></td><td>Para 166 PD</td><td>When a party is required to verify the contents of the Form Showing Lack of Means.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>146</td><td><p>Form Showing Lack of Means</p><p> </p></td><td>Para 166 PD</td><td> When a party requests for a waiver or deferment of the whole or any part of any appeal court fees.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>147</td><td>Request for Hearing Dates / Further Hearing Dates</td><td><p>Third Schedule Part 2 FJ(G)R</p><p> </p><p>Third Schedule Part 2 FJ(P)R</p><p> </p></td><td>To be used for hearings in which hearing fees are payable.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>148</td><td>Directions to Accountant General</td><td><p>P.27, r.4(1) FJ(G)R</p><p>P.27, r.4(5) FJ(G)R</p><p>P.27, r.8 FJ(G)R</p><p>Para 141(1), (2) PD</p><p> </p><p>P.18, r.4(1) FJ(P)R</p><p>P.18, r.4(5) FJ(P)R</p><p>P.18, r.8 FJ(P)R</p></td><td>When monies are to be paid into or out of court, whichever applicable.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>149</td><td>Authority to Company to Register Transfer</td><td><p>P.27, r.4(3) FJ(G)R</p><p>P.27, r.4(4) FJ(G)R</p><p> </p><p>P.18, r.4(3) FJ(P)R</p><p>P.18, r.4(4) FJ(P)R</p></td><td><p>To be filed when a person is authorised to execute a transfer of securities.</p><p> </p><p> </p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>150</td><td>Affidavit for Payment Out on Death of Payee</td><td><p>P.27, r.10 FJ(G)R</p><p> </p><p>P.18, r.10 FJ(P)R</p></td><td>Payment out on death of payee.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>151</td><td><p>Application to be Registered User of the Electronic Filing Service</p><p> </p></td><td>Para 173 PD</td><td>When a person applies to be the registered / authorised user of the Integrated Electronic Litigation System or eLitigation.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>152</td><td><p>Application to use the Technology Courts or Mobile Infocomm Technology Facilities (MIT Facilities)</p><p> </p></td><td>Para 197 PD</td><td>To be used only for hearings conducted at the Supreme Court building.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>153</td><td><p>Request for Interpretation Services</p><p> </p></td><td>Para 200(3) PD</td><td>To be used only for hearings before a Judge in the Family Division of the High Court.</td><td> </td></tr></tbody></table>

**Forms in Appendix C (Forms for use in Family Justice (Probate and Other Matters) Rules 2024)**

<table data-full-width="true"><thead><tr><th width="88">Form No.</th><th width="222">Form Title</th><th width="244">Applicable Rule(s) / PD Paragraph(s)</th><th width="348">When should the form be used</th><th>Remarks</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>154</td><td><p>Summons</p><p> </p></td><td>P.3, r.10(2) FJ(P)R</td><td>To be filed when the summons has to be served.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>155</td><td><p>Summons Without Notice</p><p> </p></td><td>P.3, r.10(3) FJ(P)R</td><td>To be filed when the summons need not be served on anyone and only where the FJ(P)R allows.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>156</td><td>Notice of Action</td><td>P.4, r.9 FJ(P)R</td><td>To be filed when directed by the court to issue a notice of action to non-parties.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>157</td><td>Notice of Appointment / Change of Solicitor</td><td>P.4, r.11(1) and (3) FJ(P)R</td><td><p>To be filed by a solicitor to notify the:</p><p> </p><p>(a) Appointment of solicitors; or</p><p>(b) Change of solicitors.</p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>158</td><td>Notice of Intention of Party to Act in Person, in place of Solicitor</td><td>P.4, r.11(4) FJ(P)R</td><td>To be filed by a party who after having sued or defended by a solicitor, intends to act in person without legal representation.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>159</td><td>Notice of Ceasing to Act as Solicitor</td><td>P.4, r.12(1) FJ(P)R</td><td>To be filed by a solicitor who has ceased to act for a party pursuant to an order of court.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>160</td><td><p>Summons for Withdrawal of Solicitor</p><p> </p></td><td>P.4, r.12(2) FJ(P)R</td><td>To be filed by the solicitor applying to court to cease acting for a party.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>161</td><td>Order for Withdrawal of Solicitor</td><td>P.4, r.12(4) FJ(P)R</td><td>To be filed when the court has made an order for a solicitor to cease acting for a party.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>162</td><td><p>Originating Application for Probate Pursuant to the Probate and Administration Act 1934</p><p> </p></td><td><p>P.6, r.3 FJ(P)R</p><p>P.6, r.46 FJ(P)R</p></td><td>When filing a non-contentious application for a grant of probate or letters of administration or for resealing.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>163</td><td>Supporting Affidavit for Application for Grants / Resealing</td><td><p>P.6, r.3(2) FJ(P)R</p><p>Para 209 PD</p></td><td>To be filed within 14 days after the filing of the Originating Application for Probate pursuant to the Probate and Administration Act 1934.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>164</td><td>Consent of Co-Administrator</td><td>P.6, r.16 FJ(P)R</td><td>To be filed by the proposed co-administrator when an applicant makes an application for a grant to be made to the applicant and to a proposed co-administrator having no right to a grant.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>165</td><td>Memorandum of Service</td><td><p>P.6, r.18 FJ(P)R</p><p>P.7, r.5 FJ(P)R</p></td><td>To be filed after service of the relevant application or Notice of Action.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>166</td><td>Renunciation</td><td>P.6, r.28 FJ(P)R</td><td>To be filed by the person renouncing his or her right to apply for a grant.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>167</td><td>Administration Oath</td><td>P.6, r.30 FJ(P)R</td><td>To be filed by the applicant and proposed co-administrators when taking take an oath to faithfully administer the estate and to account for the same.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>168</td><td>Administration Bond</td><td>P.6, r.31 FJ(P)R</td><td>To be filed when security is required for the administration of the estate.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>169</td><td>Grants</td><td>P.6, r.32 FJ(P)R</td><td>To be issued by the court when the application for a Grant is granted and completed.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>170</td><td>Caveat Against Grant of Probate Pursuant to the Probate and Administration Act 1934</td><td>P.6, r.34(2) FJ(P)R</td><td>To be filed by a person claiming to have an interest in the estate before probate or letters of administration have been granted so that no probate or letters of administration shall be granted without notice to the caveator.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>171</td><td>Warning to Caveator</td><td>P.6, r.34(7) FJ(P)R</td><td>To be filed by a person interested in the estate (called a person warning) to require a caveator to give particulars of any interest contrary to the person warning’s interest which the caveator may have in the deceased’s estate.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>172</td><td>Notice of Intention to Contest or Not Contest Warning or Citation</td><td><p>P.6, r.34(9), (11), (12) FJ(P)R</p><p>P.6, r.38(7) FJ(P)R</p><p>P.6, r.39(5) FJ(P)R</p><p>P.6, r.40(2) FJ(P)R</p></td><td>To be filed by the Caveator within 14 days after service of the warning.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>173</td><td>Citation Pursuant to the Probate and Administration Act 1934</td><td><p>P.6, r.38(1) FJ(P)R</p><p>P.6, r.39 FJ(P)R</p><p>P.6, r.40(1) FJ(P)R</p></td><td>To be filed to clear prior rights in the estate or to require an executor or other persons interested under the will to propound a will etc.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>174</td><td>Memorandum of Resealing</td><td>P.6, r.46(9) FJ(P)R</td><td>To be issued by the Registry to the applicant when the application for resealing is granted and completed.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>175</td><td>Form for Notice of Resealing</td><td>P.6, r.46(9) FJ(P)R</td><td>To be issued by the Registry to the foreign court when the application for resealing is granted and completed.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>176</td><td>Notice of Intention to Contest or Not Contest Action</td><td>P.7, r.4 FJ(P)R 2024</td><td>To be filed by a person who has obtained permission to intervene in a probate action.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>177</td><td>Schedule of Assets</td><td>Para 212 PD</td><td>To be filed for applications where the death occurred on or after 15 February 2008.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>178</td><td>Consent to Dispensation of Sureties</td><td>Para 215(4) PD</td><td>To be filed generally by adult beneficiaries and creditors if they consent to an application to dispensation of sureties.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>179</td><td>Pre-Case Conference Questionnaire</td><td>Para 222(2) PD</td><td>To be filed 1 week before the first Registrar’s Case Conference (“RCC”) to facilitate discussion at the RCC.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>180</td><td>Expert Witness Template</td><td>Para 222(8) PD</td><td>To be filed prior to the RCC where the issue of expert evidence (if any) is discussed.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>181</td><td>Note to Expert Witness</td><td>Para 222(10) PD</td><td>To be sent to the experts.</td><td>Filing not required.</td></tr><tr><td>182</td><td><p>Sample Single Application Pending Trial (“SAPT”) Checklist Template</p><p> </p></td><td>Para 222(13) PD</td><td>For parties to indicate their preferred sequence of the matters set out in the SAPT.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>183</td><td>Amicable Resolution Offer</td><td>Para 224(1) PD</td><td>To be filed and served by a party who wishes to attempt mediation or any other means of amicable resolution of the dispute.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>184</td><td>Response to Amicable Resolution Offer</td><td>Para 224(1) PD</td><td>To be filed and served by a party responding to an Amicable Resolution Offer.</td><td> </td></tr></tbody></table>

**Forms in Appendix D (Forms for use in Family Justice (Protection from Harassment) Rules 2024)**

<table data-full-width="true"><thead><tr><th width="85">Form No.</th><th width="221">Form Title</th><th width="243">Applicable Rule(s) / PD Paragraph(s)</th><th width="353">When should the form be used?</th><th>Remarks</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>185</td><td><p>Application under Section 16I(2)(C) for permission to commence proceedings under Protection from Harassment Act 2014 in the Family Court</p><p> </p></td><td>Rule 4(1) FJ(PH)R</td><td>To apply for permission to commence proceedings under the Protection from Harassment Act 2014 (“POHA 2014”) in the Family Court.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>186</td><td><p>Affidavit in Support of application for permission to commence proceedings under Protection from Harassment Act 2014 in the Family Court</p><p> </p></td><td>Rule 4(3) FJ(PH)R</td><td>To provide evidence for Form 185.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>187</td><td><p>Application for Protection Order (with Expedited Order and/or Mandatory Treatment Order)</p><p> </p></td><td>Rule 7(1) FJ(PH)R</td><td>To apply for a protection order (with expedited order or mandatory treatment order, where applicable) under the POHA 2014.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>188</td><td>Affidavit in support of application for Protection Order / Expedited Order / Mandatory Treatment Order</td><td>Rule 7(3) FJ(PH)R</td><td>To provide evidence for Form 187.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>189</td><td><p>Affidavit in reply to application for Protection Order / Expedited Order / Mandatory Treatment Order</p><p> </p></td><td>Rule 7(6) FJ(PH)R</td><td>To respond to the party’s application for a protection order (with expedited or mandatory treatment order, where applicable) under the POHA 2014.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>190</td><td><p>Order of Court (Protection Order / Expedited Order)</p><p> </p></td><td>Rule 8(1) and (2) FJ(PH)R</td><td>When the court grants a protection order or expedited order under the POHA 2014.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>191</td><td><p>Notification to relevant party not identified in Protection Order / Expedited Order</p><p> </p></td><td>Rule 8(3) and (4) FJ(PH)R</td><td>To notify a relevant party of particulars of offending communication and publication of offending communication.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>192</td><td><p>Application to Vary / Suspend / Extend / Cancel Protection Order or Expedited Order</p><p> </p></td><td>Rule 9(1)(a) FJ(PH)R</td><td>To vary, suspend, extend or cancel a protection order or expedited order under the POHA 2014.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>193</td><td>Affidavit in support of application to Vary / Suspend / Extend / Cancel Protection Order or Expedited Order</td><td>Rule 9(1)(b) FJ(PH)R</td><td>To provide evidence for Form 192.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>194</td><td><p>Application for False Statement Order (with Interim False Statement Order)</p><p> </p></td><td>Rule 10(1) FJ(PH)R</td><td>To apply for a false statement order (with interim false statement order, where applicable) under the POHA 2014.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>195</td><td><p>Application for Interim False Statement Order</p><p> </p></td><td>Rule 10(4)(b) FJ(PH)R</td><td>To apply for an interim false statement order under the POHA 2014.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>196</td><td><p>Affidavit in support of application for False Statement Order / Interim False Statement Order</p><p> </p></td><td>Rule 10(1) and 4(b) FJ(PH)R</td><td>To provide evidence for Form 194 and/or Form 195.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>197</td><td><p>Affidavit in reply to application for False Statement Order / Interim False Statement Order</p><p> </p></td><td>Rule 10(6) FJ(PH)R</td><td>To respond to the party’s application for a false statement order or interim false statement order under the POHA 2014.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>198</td><td><p>False Statement Order / Interim False Statement Order</p><p> </p></td><td>Rule 11(1)(a) and (2)(a) FJ(PH)R</td><td>When the Court grants a false statement order or interim false statement order under the POHA 2014.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>199</td><td><p>Notification to relevant party not identified in Stop Publication Order / Interim Stop Publication Order</p><p> </p></td><td>Rule 11(3) and (4) FJ(PH)R</td><td>To notify the relevant party of particulars of relevant statement and publication of that statement.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>200</td><td><p>Application to Vary, Suspend or Cancel False Statement Order / Interim False Statement Order</p><p> </p></td><td>Rule 12(1)(a) FJ(PH)R</td><td>To vary, suspend or cancel false statement order or interim false statement order under the POHA 2014.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>201</td><td><p>Affidavit in support of application to Vary, Suspend or Cancel False Statement Order / Interim False Statement Order</p><p> </p></td><td>Rule 12(1)(b) FJ(PH)R</td><td>To provide evidence for Form 200.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>202</td><td><p>Order for Preliminary Assessment Report</p><p> </p></td><td>Rule 15(1) FJ(PH)R</td><td>When the court grants an order for a preliminary assessment report.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>203</td><td><p>Order for Formal Assessment Report</p><p> </p></td><td>Rule 16(1) FJ(PH)R</td><td>When the court grants an order for a formal assessment report.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>204</td><td><p>Mandatory Treatment Order</p><p> </p></td><td>Rule 17(1) FJ(PH)R</td><td>When the court grants an order for a mandatory treatment.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>205</td><td><p>Application to Vary or Revoke Mandatory Treatment Order</p><p> </p></td><td>Rule 17(2) FJ(PH)R</td><td>To vary or revoke a mandatory treatment order under the POHA 2014.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>206</td><td>Affidavit in Support of Application to Vary or Revoke Mandatory Treatment Order</td><td>Rule 17(2) FJ(PH)R</td><td>To provide evidence for Form 205.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>207</td><td><p>Affidavit in Response to application to Vary or Revoke Mandatory Treatment Order</p><p> </p></td><td>Rule 17(4) FJ(PH)R</td><td>To respond to the party’s application to vary or revoke a mandatory treatment order under the POHA 2014.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>208</td><td><p>Application to Transfer Protection from Harassment Proceedings from the Family Court to the Protection from Harassment Court</p><p> </p></td><td>Rule 5(1) FJ(PH)R</td><td>To apply to transfer proceedings under the POHA 2014 in the Family Court to the Protection from Harassment Court.</td><td> </td></tr></tbody></table>

**Appendix E (Sample Bills of Costs)**

<table data-full-width="false"><thead><tr><th width="136">Sample No.</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>A</td><td>Bill of Costs for Contentious Business - Trials</td></tr><tr><td>B</td><td>Bill of Costs for Contentious Business other than Trials</td></tr><tr><td>C</td><td>Bill of Costs for Non-Contentious Business</td></tr></tbody></table>

**Forms in Appendix F (Forms for use in Family Justice (Criminal Proceedings in Youth Courts) Rules 2024)**

<table data-full-width="true"><thead><tr><th>Form No.</th><th>Form Title</th><th>Applicable Rule(s) / PD Paragraph(s)</th><th>When should the form be used?</th><th>Remarks</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>209</td><td><p>Application by the Person-in-Charge of a Juvenile Rehabilitation Centre (CYPA)</p><p> </p></td><td>Para 244A(1) PD</td><td><p>To be used by the person-in-charge of a juvenile rehabilitation centre to apply to vary or discharge an Order made under section 49(1)(<em>i</em>) of the Children and Young Persons Act 1993 (“CYPA”).</p><p> </p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>210</td><td><p>Notice of Application (Person-in-Charge of a Juvenile Rehabilitation Centre) (CYPA)</p><p> </p></td><td>Para 244A(2) PD</td><td><p>To be used when the person-in-charge of a juvenile rehabilitation centre is required to serve a Notice of Application on the parent or guardian of a child or young person to notify him or her of the application to vary or discharge an order made under section 49(1)(<em>i</em>) of the CYPA and inform him or her to attend before the Court to be heard on the application.</p><p> </p></td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>211</td><td>Affidavit of Service (CYPA)</td><td>Para 244A(6) PD</td><td><p>To be used when a person is required to file proof of service in respect of an application to vary or discharge an Order made under section 49(1)(<em>i</em>) of the CYPA.  </p><p> </p></td><td> </td></tr></tbody></table>
